There's different ways of creating memory
in Web Assembly, but if we wanted to,
actually yeah, I think this
the last exercise we're gonna do.
Cuz [LAUGH] I can tell it's now we're
starting to get really deep into and
we're talking about unsigned 8 bit
memory arrays and things like that.
And this an intro course, I don't
wanna go too far in that direction,
I just wanna give you a taste just.
So when you come across it again,
you'll be like, yeah,
I remember Jim said that array buffer
is actually just ones and zeros and
we have to give it a view, that's what
a typed array is called a view into it.
So let's go and do that,
let's create some memory, let's create
a memory object in Web Assembly, and
then let's pass memory back and forth.
So this is a demo of passing
memory to WebAssembly, and so
whether someone's gonna read
from JavaScript memory, and
then JavaScript gonna read
from the WebAssembly memory.
Okay, I am going to start over,
I don't need this,
And gonna check my notes so
I get this right.
So, we're gonna jump back to our index.ts,
Close that, that is in the assembly
directory index.ts and
you can keep these if you want but
I'm gonna clear them out,
just to keep things simple.
So the first thing we wanna do
is we wanna set the memory,
memory because it's fixed and
it's linear it doesn't grow automatically.
You have to tell the computer, hey, I want
from this address to this address and
I want that reserved for my space.
And I'm gonna do whatever I want within
that space, but I don't want anybody else
to overwrite that memory, and
I want you to know it's allocated to me.
But we have to tell the computer
exactly how much memory we want, so
we use memory.grow.
And we're gonna give it 2 pages, and
a page is 64 kilobytes of information,
it's just one of the many
ways of referring to memory.
And we're gonna give it 2
pages worth of information, so
we're allocating 128 kilobytes of
memory to our Web Assembly process.
So now, and this is pretty cool,
we're gonna write directly to memory,
there's no fancy utility or
anything like that,
we're writing directly to memory now.
So we're gonna say store, And
we're gonna say store at index 0, that
is the beginning of our memory after the
headers and the offset, things like that.
We're gonna store the number 21,
preferred save or
if we try to compile it now it's gonna
throw an error, because we said we wanna
store the number 21 but we didn't
say what we want it to look like.
Remember, we're dealing with ones and
zeros, so we have to be very specific.
So I wanna store this number as
an unsigned 8 bit integer, so
I'm gonna say store u8.
So now we're storing 21
index 0 into our memory.
And let's store another number, let's
store another unsigned 8 bit integer.
And we'll store that index 1,
I'm gonna store 99, there.
Okay, I [LAUGH] think this is so cool,
I think we are now writing ones and
zeros directly into
the RAM of our computer or
the registry depends on where it's going.
I think that's powerful,
there's no abstraction on top of this,
this is straight, low level programming,
which is hopefully what you're here for,
if not, I'm excited for
you that we get to do this.
All right, next up, we want to
export a function that reads memory,
so I'm gonna say, export readMemory.
And that's gonna to take a number and
that's gonna be an unsigned or
it's gonna be a 32 bit integer,
call it a function.
And it's gonna return a 32 bit integer
that is read from memory, so i32.
Okay, so
here we're gonna use the load function, so
store writes directly into memory and
verses load is gonna read out from memory.
And again, we have to say exactly how
we're reading it and what we're reading.
So in this case, we're reading
an unsigned 8 bit integer, And
I wanna load the index that is passed in.
And I'm just gonna say
return because out of habit,
I know it's implied but
it's gonna return anyways.
Okay, everybody with me so far, [LAUGH]
this is pretty tactical, I know it can be
a little confusing for people, especially
for I'll say for me, who doesn't
work directly in languages like C we
have to allocate the allocate memory.
So, storing things in memory, reading
them from memory and being specific about
the type, this is all brand new stuff
to me as well or it was at a time.
So, that's why we're spending a little
bit of time on it but we're not going
too deep into it, cuz, as we'll see
in the later more advanced examples,
things will get complicated very quickly.
All right, so now let's access
the function we just wrote, well,
first, let's build it,
let's make sure I do everything right.
No whammies, no whammies, no whammies,
no whammies okay, built so,
the code I wrote is valid,
that's always helpful.
I do like that about typed languages is it
catches a lot of mistakes ahead of time.
And now, let's pull out the memory,
so one of the things export it is we
exported the function called readMemory,
remember the one we just wrote.
And then we also export it, what exports
by default is the memory itself,
and this is in the form
of a shared array buffer.
And I will actually pause or
not pause there, but I'll take a break for
a second and that's instance
to come back to array buffers.
We talked about them briefly but
there are two types of array
buffers that we care about, and
remember, array buffer is just
a long string of raw binary data.
There are array buffers, which
are isolated to the process itself and
then there's the shared array buffer.
And shared array buffer is a buffer that
is accessible by two different processes.
So that is in this case, a shared array
buffer is a memory space that both
the WebAssembly and
JavaScript know the addresses, and
they can reach in and they can
both read and write to each other.
Funny enough, at underneath all
of the craft all the helpers and
everything we're doing,
that is what's actually happening.
That's how we're passing data back and
forth is via writing of memory and
reading the memory.
Fortunately, things like assembly
script do all that work for us, so
we don't have to worry about it.
But if we were writing pure on
adulterated vanilla web assembly,
we'd have to handle all this ourselves,
as in how to pass data back and forth.
But fortunately, the JavaScript API and
assembly script loader,
do all this work for us.
Okay, so
we learned what shared array buffers are,
you've probably seen them before,
anybody remember, this is a bit of trivia.
But anybody remember the,
was it spectre and
meltdown over those big
things from before?
All right, so part of it, and
I will explain this naively cuz I am
not a low level systems engineer,
but part of what was happening was
a share rate was a timing attack.
So things are memory safe right now,
that's in a process can read
from another process memory.
That's part of what operating systems do
is they guarantee this memory security.
We want this because, let's say, I don't
know, you're streaming are your saving
confidential medical
information to the hard disk,
there's a process that's doing that if
we're just taking this as an example.
You wouldn't want another process to
be able to read into that memory and
extract that information to the side,
that is not what we want computers to do.
And if we didn't have memory security,
we would have to run everything linearly.
We'd have to say, you execute and
then you execute and
then you execute just to make sure
that there's no memory crossovers.
So what happened was the shared array
buffer is a way of sharing memory.
And the bug was other processes could
reach in and read that shared array buffer
because it wasn't being used properly,
it wasn't implemented properly.
And there's such thing known
as a timing attack, and
a timing attack is when
a process is writing to memory.
And because the operating systems
are generally pretty good,
other processes can't tell what's doing.
But what it can do,
what the other hostile process can do,
is it by the amount of time it
takes to write into memory.
We know that a bigger number is gonna
take a certain amount of time and
a smaller number is gonna take less time.
And through a lot of complex engineering,
you can actually figure out what's being
written by the sheer amount of time it
takes for the process to start and finish,
and that's what is one of
the things that was happening.
So they actually disabled shared array
buffer for a while in browsers until they
fix that, and they also reduce
the specificity on performance that now.
Cuz performance that now was, I think
it got to microsecond precision for
it in terms of timing things.
And that was one of the things that
allowed the timing attacks was when you
can get to that level of precision, as in,
you know exactly how long it
takes the CPU to write to memory.
We're talking about microseconds or
pico seconds,
you can figure out what's going on, so
they disabled a lot of that for a while.
Totally an aside,
not including the course that's just the,
so you can nerd out with me next time we
all hang out in person [LAUGH] will nerd
out about shared array buffers.
Okay, [LAUGH] back to the cours, itself,
so now what we need to do is we
want to read from the memory.
And then we wanna write to memory and read
from memory as an example of JavaScript
writing to WebAssembly memory, and
WebAssembly writing to JavaScript memory.
So in our index.html file,
we're back, no more rants from me,
I promise, maybe one more,
but for now, no more rants.
One of the things that the loader and
WebAssembly self exports is the memory, so
this is a shared array buffer,
the one we just talked about.
So, now let's read from the memory array,
but
the first thing we need to do is
we need to cast the memory into
a view that makes sense to
us now we can decode it.
So I'm gonna say memoryArray,
Equals new unsigned integer array.
Because remember we are previously in
the index ts we are storing everything as
unsigned ends.
We don't necessarily have to do that, but
it just makes things easier when we come
up on the other side, we're talking
about different types of memory,
it helps to keep the same
view of that memory.
I'm gonna say the memory buffer, which is
the active memory being used right now.
And I'm gonna use document.write, again.
And I'm gonna pull from
the memoryArray at index 1.
All right,
one of the benefits of an unsigned
8array it's an array like structure.
So things like indexing and
certain operations like you're
gonna move some things like that.
It's an array like it's
not an array itself, but
it's close enough for our use case, so
we can just access it by the index.
So index 1, this should print 99
if I've done things correctly,
hey, did, all right,
pretty cool, that's pretty cool.
So now we wrote 99 into
the memory at index 1, and
then we're reading it from JavaScript via
the unsigned 8 array and
the memory buffer.
So let's go the other way,
let's write to memory and
see if WebAssembly can use that as well.
So I'm gonna say, just for cleanliness,
I'm gonna say document.writes,
I'm gonna throw in a br tag,
just to make it easier to read,
not critical.
I'm gonna say, Actually do that next,
I'm gonna write to the memory, right?
So, writing to the memory array in
JavaScript is a little bit simpler,
we don't have to give it types or
anything like that.
I'm gonna write at three location 3,
and I'm gonna say,
actually get to all follow my own example,
I'm gonna write 42 int array.
So now we can read from the memory,
so documents.writes, and
we're gonna call that an exported
wizened function read memory,
which reads from whatever
the pointer we pass in.
So, I'm gonna read from index 2,
from the shared array buffer,
And if I've done things correctly,
this should print outs 42, yeah.
So, this seems trivial and
it's just an example, but
what we did was we wrote directly
to memory and WebAssembly.
And then we call that in JavaScript,
that shared memory, and
we read from it and
then we wrote back to the memory and
we made sure that WebAssembly
can call it itself.
So in this way, we pass things back and
forth, we pass data back and forth and
this is the primary way of communicating
between WebAssembly and JavaScript.
Is just through this
shared array buffer and
writing to the memory locations at once.
Now, you see the complexity in doing
something like this get to keep track of
indexes and the pointer says index, and
what type of memory is being saved.
Is it an unsigned integer?
Is it a 32 bit integer?
Things like that.
Which is why, as I said earlier, one of
the struggles with creating this course
was creating simple enough content or
simple enough examples that it
didn't get too complicated.
Cuz the really build up really performance
and applications that really showcased
WebAssembly would get incredibly complex,
because of all this reading and
writing to memory, and I didn't really
wanna spend too much time on that.